12 Monkeys Script at IMSDb. The Internet Movie Script Database (IMSDb) The web's largest movie script resource! Search IMSDb Alphabetical # A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Genre Action Adventure Animation Comedy Crime Drama Family Fantasy Film-Noir Horror Musical Mystery Romance Sci-Fi Short Thriller War Western TV Transcripts Futurama Seinfeld South Park Stargate SG-1 Lost The 4400 Sponsor International French scripts Latest Comments Predator 9/10 Master and Commander 2/10 White Christmas 8/10 Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald 10/10 Legend 10/10 12 Monkeys Script IMSDb opinion None available IMSDb rating Not available Average user rating (9.25 out of 10) Writers David Peoples Janet Peoples Genres Drama Sci-Fi Thriller Script Date : June 1994 Read "12 Monkeys" Script User Comments for 12 Monkeys Ron Inbar (10 out of 10 ) This is one of the best scripts of all times, not just for a science-fiction movie. Stephen (6 out of 10 ) I think that this script was okay at best. I've never seen the movie, but the script alone is confusing and is not written very well. I think reading something else would be a better use of your time. chelo godoy (9 out of 10 ) This is one of my favorite movies! Terrific script, very strange and dark. The future is nothing. Greetings from chile. harry georgatos (10 out of 10 ) This has to rank as one of the all-time great sci-fi films ever made. It's one of the most visually striking movies within the genre. It has a truly mind bending plot that teases the mind. People tell me the plot doesn't make sense. I tend to disagree. If one concentrates enough everything is there. On repeated viewing it becomes all the more clear. The performance by Bruce Willis still ranks as the best and most vulnerable he has ever given. The writers David and Janet Peoples have given Terry Gilliam a script that ranks up there with the best, if not the best within the time travelling genre. I'm eager to see the script that these two writers are penning for Christopher Nolan when he directs the tv adaptation of "The Prisoner" to film. That surely will be the movie event of that particular year to watch out for. These two writers have been responsible for some of the great films of cinema, from "Blade Runner" "Unforgiven" to "Twelve Monkeys" and now "The Prisoner". Bungo (10 out of 10 ) This is such an under-rated movie in the Sci-Fi genre, perhaps because it is more about the underlying themes than wowing us with big-budget special effects and explosions to keep the MTV generations attention for longer than 2 seconds. The script is astoundingly well written and perfectly expanded from the French short story it was based upon. Stephen, don't feel bad, the movie itself is fairly confusing, but it's meant to make you think rather than just throw the answers to life the universe and everything at the viewer. It jumps around quite a lot, mixing things up to keep the audience on their toes until they are at the point whether they too start doubting what is real and make-believe and whether this is all just a delusion. Watch the movie (a few times) and see if it makes more sense then. Dweinin (9 out of 10 ) Agreed. One of my all time favorite. The plot, sub plots and story are very deep and require an attentive viewer. This isn't something you watch or read on a lazy Sunday while you are only 1/2 interested. I found the story to be mysterious and suspenseful. If it's confusing or you don't understand it, I agree with Bungo- watch it again. All the answers are there and the story wraps itself up nicely. I particularly like the last line of the movie, "I'm in insurance." Brilliant. dr (10 out of 10 ) The last line is incorrect. She says, "I'm an insurance." She says it knowing it'll sound like "I'm in insurance," but really she's referring to the fact that she's an insurance to make sure the virus is released (because when it is, in the future she and the others rule the world and she doen'y want to lose that power) Go back and listen again and you'll hear it. marcel (10 out of 10 ) 12 monkeys is the first movie ever to send chills down my back. It deals with reincarnation, the future, the past, it is loaded. As science fiction goes Blade Runner is number 1, Matrix 2, then 12 Monkeys. Add your own comment * Name: E-mail: * Comment: * Rating: - Choose - 10 (Excellent) 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 (Awful) "12 Monkeys" Script Index | Submit | Link to IMSDb | Disclaimer | Privacy policy | Contact