17 Again Script at IMSDb. The Internet Movie Script Database (IMSDb) The web's largest movie script resource! Search IMSDb Alphabetical # A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Genre Action Adventure Animation Comedy Crime Drama Family Fantasy Film-Noir Horror Musical Mystery Romance Sci-Fi Short Thriller War Western TV Transcripts Futurama Seinfeld South Park Stargate SG-1 Lost The 4400 Sponsor International French scripts Latest Comments Predator 9/10 Master and Commander 2/10 White Christmas 8/10 Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald 10/10 Legend 10/10 17 Again Script IMSDb opinion None available IMSDb rating Not available Average user rating (8.10 out of 10) Writers Jason Filardi Genres Comedy Drama Romance Script Date : October 2007 Movie Release Date : April 2009 Read "17 Again" Script User Comments for 17 Again StinkyRaf (3 out of 10 ) Seen this on a plane. Totally useless. I guess I was forced to watch it by the pressure of the plane. Emily (10 out of 10 ) So funny. Zac Efron totally won my heart in this one. It shows that he actually can act. Loved it. Dina Sadek (8 out of 10 ) The movie is good but the original court speech in the original script is so much better than that one that Zac Efron gave on the court which is a small version of the original one. I think the scene could have been better with the original one. Jason Filardi you really got me with that speech. milli (10 out of 10 ) I loved it at the bit where he read the letter I cried and it was so cute and when mike grew up he did not sound like Zac efron. melanie93 (8 out of 10 ) After the very annoying High School Musical craze, I was not at all enthused to learn that Zac Efron would be playing a young version of Matthew Perry's character in this movie, because I love Matthew Perry, and I didnt think Zac Efron was fit to play the same person as him. I watched the movie anyway, though slightly worried I wouldn't like it because of Zac. And I loved it. Well written, well acted. I laughed, I cried. Overall a very good movie. sadia (10 out of 10 ) I love this movie. It's all about regret about the life you spend wrongly and you want to change the things but, I even like that boy in Mike O Donnel character. I enjoyed the movie a lot and have seen it 8 times. Ray (8 out of 10 ) One of the best comedy movies I have seen until date. dona (9 out of 10 ) I have seen this movie over and over again just because of zac. He looked so perfect in all the scenes that I couldn't take my eyes off him. The movie is well made and the dialogues very well written. Going to watch it for the 11th time soon. Kal (6 out of 10 ) The movie is great. Burr Steers did a good job. But this original draft is just lacking. The edited film came out is much better than this draft. So I am grading this version of the script (as well you should.), not the final film. RaeLee (9 out of 10 ) Oh my god the script was amazing. I now really want to watch the movie. I feel like the way my imagination put the script is going to be way different then the actual movie though. Add your own comment * Name: E-mail: * Comment: * Rating: - Choose - 10 (Excellent) 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 (Awful) "17 Again" Script Index | Submit | Link to IMSDb | Disclaimer | Privacy policy | Contact