Alien Script at IMSDb. The Internet Movie Script Database (IMSDb) The web's largest movie script resource! Search IMSDb Alphabetical # A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Genre Action Adventure Animation Comedy Crime Drama Family Fantasy Film-Noir Horror Musical Mystery Romance Sci-Fi Short Thriller War Western TV Transcripts Futurama Seinfeld South Park Stargate SG-1 Lost The 4400 Sponsor International French scripts Latest Comments Predator 9/10 Master and Commander 2/10 White Christmas 8/10 Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald 10/10 Legend 10/10 Alien Script IMSDb opinion None available IMSDb rating Not available Average user rating (9.76 out of 10) Writers Walter Hill David Giler Genres Action Horror Sci-Fi Thriller Script Date : June 1978 Read "Alien" Script User Comments for Alien Evan (10 out of 10 ) This is not a movie, this is art! Nufuhsus (10 out of 10 ) Evan is correct. This is not a movie, this is art. In fact, according to Wikipedia, "In 2002, the United States Library of Congress deemed Alien 'culturally significant' and selected it for preservation in the National Film Registry". Culturally Significant! How cool is that? shombata (10 out of 10 ) I remember I was 12 when my mom was watching it on the TV but she said that I wasn't allowed to see it because it was too scary. Although I saw some scenes and I couldn't sleep that night! Today I am 18 and I don't find it scary at all! It's really good, it's a classic. rahul (10 out of 10 ) It is a classic. One of its kind. Faresco (10 out of 10 ) So true, a classic. Too bad they don't make movies like they used to. Alissa (10 out of 10 ) This is quite possibly the best film ever. Red (10 out of 10 ) Alien is a brilliant film... this looks like the original draft of the script. Clearly it got a lot of improvement along the way; it seems they removed a lot of gore and added more suspense. Also I'd guess the creature designs were altered a lot by H.R. Giger. Really interesting seeing this draft anyway. Oks (10 out of 10 ) No one has seen anything like a xenomorph before until Alien. To this day, every director wants to make another Alien movie (APV for example) and none of them have succeeded except for James Cameron. But nothing can compare to the first one, for it was a perfect thriller. asuma (10 out of 10 ) This is my favorite movie ever... but I was looking for a different script, the first draft that was written by Dan O'Bannon and Shusett. It was pretty different from Giler-Hill's treatment: no Ash, an "egg silo" on the planet (very distant from the wrecked alien ship), all characters name were different (Broussard, Standard and so on)... Now that would be interesting! asuma (10 out of 10 ) This is my favorite movie ever... but I was looking for a different script, the first draft that was written by Dan O'Bannon and Shusett. It was pretty different from Giler-Hill's treatment: no Ash, an "egg silo" on the planet (very distant from the wrecked alien ship), all characters name were different (Broussard, Standard and so on)... Now that would be interesting! Kapp (10 out of 10 ) I remember seeing this in the movies when I was around 9 (I of course have seen it many times since then) I just remember the VERY LOUD sound effects, the difficulty in seeing the alien, which was of coruse scary, and of course, that ^&* cat Years later, this movie is a serious blueprint for many, many other films-Although Aliens is my personal favorite of the films, Ridley Scott's movie is still a classic scare fest el chuy (10 out of 10 ) This movie goes ahead of its time like I have never seen other movie do so. After 30 years (yeah, 30 years!) it still looks it could have been filmed just some few years ago. A true sciencie-fiction masterpiece that reaches levels of creativity and filmaking quality only comparable to futuristic works of art like Metropolis and Blade Runner. Cheezel (10 out of 10 ) I am currently studying this movie for a Bachelor of Journalism. I am utilizing it in a comparitive essay arguing that at it's core it is a western. It has all the features of a horror/scifi but can stand as a western in many ways. They are (obviously) in a new frontier. However they are driving ore rather than cattle or sheep, Tom Skerritt's character is an archatypical 'western' man, he has few words, does the manly man thing and is fighting against many elements that he is unaware of including corruption and greed. The most important factor is that as with any good western, they are totally dependent on the environment in which they live; the environment infact is another cast member. It is totally involved with the whole structure of the movie. The gender issue is interesting as well. Ripley is often refered to as the hero of the show but she is not. She is last man standing and what's more when the time comes for her show down with the Alien she is reduced back to the female, the encounter begins with her in her underwear. She is always reduced back to the female. When Ash tries to kill her, it takes place in a work station which is papered with naked women. It is a very interesting movie in many ways and fascinates me. I could not tell you how many times I have seen this movie and I find something different in it everytime that I see it. It still scares the crap out of me and while I have been studying it the things that go bump in the night have been making me jump. When the movie was originally released I was too young to see it; it was rated are. The adds alone scared all crap out of me. It is fascinating though and I agree that it is still contemporary. John (10 out of 10 ) Writers Walter Hill AND David Giler? The idea and main story is from Dan O'Bannon & Ronald Shusett. Fabio (10 out of 10 ) It is amazing that Dan O'Bannon claims that the script that was shot was his. I read both and it is clear that it is Hill/Giller's rewrite that ended up on the screen. Somehow, he won the dispute with the writer's guild and the screenplay for Alien is credited to him! Go figure. But I highly suggest that fans of this film read the original screenplay from O'Bannon. It's a different film, but one worth making. loopy (10 out of 10 ) Cheezel, if Ripley is not the hero, who is? She saves the cat, she saves Earth, and she saves herself. njmfffanj (9 out of 10 ) Yes, I agree with people who tell this is ART. "Alien" script is in fact just a B movie, but it was elevated because it was given an artistic treatment. Monroville (6 out of 10 ) Keep in mind that this is DAN O'BANNON's first draft (with the all male cast). Does anyone have the first Walter Hill revision, where Mother was the secondary villain as opposed to Ash (the robot)? J. Brian (10 out of 10 ) Why are Walter and David listed here as writers? This is not their version of the script. This is Dan O'Bannon's script. Walter tried to shanghi the script from Dan by renaming all of the characters and rewriting a lot of the scenes. Luckily, Dan happened to discover this before they actually shot it and was able to save his writing credit. As much as I admire Walter Hill's style of script writing and have adopted it myself for my scripts, I lost all respect for him as a writer when I learned this fact because I've had 2 "writers" attempt to do this to me. It makes me wonder what other scripts he rewrote and sold off as his own. Dan was also greatly disrespected on the set during production when he asked to sit in on the dailies. *This information comes from interviews on the special features portion of the Alien special edition 2 disc DVD set. Lutfullo (10 out of 10 ) This movie goes ahead of its time like I have never seen other movie do so. After 30 years (yeah, 30 years!) it still looks it could have been filmed just some few years ago. Add your own comment * Name: E-mail: * Comment: * Rating: - Choose - 10 (Excellent) 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 (Awful) "Alien" Script Index | Submit | Link to IMSDb | Disclaimer | Privacy policy | Contact