Frozen (Disney) Script at IMSDb. The Internet Movie Script Database (IMSDb) The web's largest movie script resource! Search IMSDb Alphabetical # A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Genre Action Adventure Animation Comedy Crime Drama Family Fantasy Film-Noir Horror Musical Mystery Romance Sci-Fi Short Thriller War Western TV Transcripts Futurama Seinfeld South Park Stargate SG-1 Lost The 4400 Sponsor International French scripts Latest Comments Predator 9/10 Master and Commander 2/10 White Christmas 8/10 Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald 10/10 Legend 10/10 Frozen (Disney) Script IMSDb opinion None available IMSDb rating Not available Average user rating (10.00 out of 10) Writers Jennifer Lee Genres Animation Adventure Comedy Script Date : September 2013 Movie Release Date : November 2013 Submitted by : Ghibli Rules Read "Frozen (Disney)" Script User Comments for Frozen (Disney) kaitlin gregson (10 out of 10 ) This film is the most amazing thing I have ever watched it is really good. This film is inspired me because it shows that we can achieve anything if we don't give up. I hope there is a frozen 2 because I would watch it. I can not express how much I love this film and it is good because it is for any ages. For example I am 13 and I watched it and my mum is 47 and she loved it. Hope lots more frozen come out. Please I want to know what happened to abba and elsa in the future. oliver pope (10 out of 10 ) This film is the most amazing thing I have ever watched it is really good. This film is inspired me because it shows that we can achieve anything if we don't give up. I hope there is a frozen 2 because I would watch it. I can not express how much I love this film and it is good because it is for any ages. For example I am 13 and I watched it and my mum is 47 and she loved it. Hope lots more frozen come out. Please I want to know what happened to abba and elsa in the future. Mia Sheccid (10 out of 10 ) I love this film is 100% the best film I ever watch is really funny I Cry I you can have a lot of emotions with this movie I love it so so much. Add your own comment * Name: E-mail: * Comment: * Rating: - Choose - 10 (Excellent) 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 (Awful) "Frozen (Disney)" Script Index | Submit | Link to IMSDb | Disclaimer | Privacy policy | Contact