"Poultrygeist!" by Duane Capizzi and Steven Roberts Last revised May 12, 1988 ------- EXT. -- A FARMHOUSE OUTSIDE NEW YORK CITY -- NIGHT On the farmhouse roof a CHICKEN-SHAPED WEATHERVANE stands silhouetted against a FULL, BLOOD-RED MOON. The wind HOWLS and the vane swivels with an EERIE SQUEAK. Then a weird ANIMAL CRY is heard--a cross between a chicken CROWING and a wolf HOWLING. A fenced-in dirt area with numerous CHICKENS milling around, CLUCKING as they peck at the ground. (ANOTHER HOWL, nearer now) The chickens' heads jerk up toward the sound. A RED-tinted, shaky, MOVING CAMERA TRUCK-IN on the chickens. (These shots are in the style of the POV SHOTS in WOLFEN.) Magnified GURGLING and HEAVY BREATHING of Werechicken is heard. The terrified chickens stare INTO CAMERA as the Werechicken moves closer, his shadow falling over them. They flap into their coop, SQUAWKING wildly. INT. -- FARMHOUSE LIVING ROOM -- NIGHT MAUDE and ZEKE sit on the sagging couch watching a werewolf movie on TV while munching popcorn from a huge bowl. They're distracted by CHICKENS Sump'n's stirrin' up the chickens, Maude. Jes' set easy, Zeke. (she rises; heads for door) I'll take a look-see. Zeke continues staring at TV. EXT. FARMHOUSE -- NIGHT -- WERECHICKEN'S POV Through the Werechicken's red eyes, we see a distant image of Maude with a flashlight, approaching the fenced-in chicken pen and opening the gate. CAMERA STARTS MOVING IN toward Maude as she enters, leaving gate open. The dirt compound is empty now as Maude crosses toward wooden chicken coop. (as she goes) Here, chick-chick-chick-chick. INT. CHICKEN COOP -- OTS MAUDE AS Maude ENTERS from OUT OF CAMERA, her flashlight beam illuminates the chickens cowering on their roosts in a corner. They CLUCK nervously. What's got you girls so durned upset? There a coyote sneakin' 'round? Suddenly the Werechicken's shadow moves up Maude's back, then the wall. (Low, gutteral CLU-UCK) Maude looks over her shoulder AT CAMERA, reacts. MAUDE'S POV -- THE WERECHICKEN Red-eyed, grotesque, three times the size of an ordinary rooster as it stands framed in the moonlit doorway. It opens its fanged beak in a horrifying SHRIEK as it springs AT CAMERA, wings flapping. (Frightening SHRIEK) INT. FARMHOUSE LIVING ROOM - CLOSE ON TV Old black-and-white movie. MELODRAMATIC MUSIC as a man turns into a werewolf, his HOWL a continuation of the previous Werechicken SHRIEK. (eerie HOWL) continues watching TV and eating popcorn. Maude walks stiffly into room behind him, eyes staring blankly. (without looking up) Everythin' okay out there, Maude? She stares with glassy, red eyes and CLUCKS quietly. What say? PAN DOWN below Maude's waist to reveal that she's turning into a chicken from the feet up. First her shoes RIP apart as large, yellow chicken feet sprout. Then her dress SWELLS and SPLITS, revealing a large, feathered body underneath. The only piece of clothing left on her is her apron. One foot scratches the floor. (more CLUCKS) WIDER ANGLE -- FULLSHOT OF MAUDE-CHICKEN Now completely transformed and six feet tall, she leaps up to perch on back of couch, THRUSTING her chicken head repeatedly into the popcorn bowl in Zeke's lap, pecking the bowl clean. Zeke's jaw hangs open, speechless, as he stares at the fanged, drooling, six-foot Werechicken. The Werechicken looks up from the empty bowl, right in Zeke's terrified eyes. He scrambles backwards off the couch. EXT. FARMHOUSE -- NIGHT - WERECHICKEN'S POV SCENE RED-tinted. We hear loud SQUAWKING from within house as chicken feathers fly out the open windows. Get away!' Scat! Shoo! (loud SQUAWKING) Watching from slight hilltop. Its beak seems to bend into an insidious grin. (from distance) Help!... He-elp! EXT. ESTABLISHING -- GHOSTBUSTERS HQ - NIGHT As CAMERA MOVES IN, we hear: Egon, could you hold off on the weather balloon bit for a minute? INT. -- LABORATORY -- ON PETER AND RAY They stand holding big plastic bags of trash, obviously annoyed at the O.S. Egon. Ray's armful of trash is piled so high that he can't see over it. SLIMER hovers behind, sticking his nose in one of the bags like a dog. He finally dives right into it. It's Your night to take out the trash. And Winston's in the kitchen doing your dishes. He's busy testing his WEATHER BALLOON--a large, pink bubble half the size of the room. He moves a lever on its remote control unit and the balloon rises. (preoccupied; through above) Be with you in ... (checks watch) ...one minute, fifty-three seconds. Peter and Ray exchange pained glances. Peter awkwardly attempts to pick up another trash bag while Ray stumbles around, his vision blocked. PAN WITH THEM as they move toward door when Egon's weather balloon suddenly lowers INTO FRAME. They bounce into and off of it, which sends the trash bags flying. (AD-LIB REACTIONS as they bounce off balloon) Peter stumbles backwards and lands butt-first right on one of the bags. Slimer SQUEALS from within it. (big muffled SQUEAL) Then he comes shooting out the back of the bag, the lower half of his body flat as a Frisbee. shakes himself off like a dog, spraying slime all over Peter. (pissed; sarcastic) Thanks, Slimer. I really needed that! Sorreee! Ray helps Peter up as the telephone RINGS and RINGS. (irritated) Egon! The phone! The RINGING phone is right beside him on the workbench. (preoccupied with remote controls) In a minute, Ray. He ENTERS with sleeves rolled up, wiping a plate with a dish towel and wearing an apron. (sarcastic) Nevermind, Egon, wouldn't want you to strain yourself. (picks up phone) Ghostbusters Central. (excited CHATTER) Calm down... Where are you?... (a BEAT as he listens) We'll be right there. He hangs up. Peter and Ray again have their arms full of trash bags. Even Slimer is dragging one. Ready for this one? Some farmer says his wife was eaten by a giant chicken. Hey, even a half-baked false alarm sounds better than doing Egon's chores. (he drops trash bags) Let's roll! Ray and Slimer also abandon their trash bags and EXIT with Peter and Winston. still oblivious as he works in the suddenly empty room. I think I've finally perfected it. Watch this, guys. (a BEAT, he looks around over shoulder) Guys? EXT. -- COUNTRY ROAD - ESTABLISHING - NIGHT ECTO-1 roars INTO CAMERA, siren and lights going. The Ghostbusters, minus Egon, are wearing their gear. Slimer hovers in back seat. It sure feels strange not having Egon with us. (sarcastic) Why? Lately even when he's with us, he's not with us. Driving. But wouldn't it be somethin' if he sells that weather balloon idea of his? He'll be a rich man! Arms folded, grumpily. Good. Then he can hire a maid to do his share of the chores. As it speeds OUT OF CAMERA toward distant farmhouse, PAN OVER TO the apron-wearing Maude-Chicken silhouetted in the moonlight, nesting in a haystack. MOVE IN TO -- CLOSER ANGLE ON MAUDE-CHICKEN Her body starts to shake, she ruffles her wings. (Egg-laying CLUCKS) Then she suddenly sits up and leaps off the haystack, revealing an enormous egg beneath her. Maude SQUAWKS and CLUCKS and struts off into a cornfield, pecking away at ears of corn. (SQUAWKS and CLUCKS) INT. -- FARMHOUSE LIVING ROOM -- NIGHT Ray, Winston and Slimer listen seriously as Zeke speaks, but Peter's obviously not buying it. Had big blood-red eyes, it did. Biggest dang chicken I ever seen. Mebbe six feet tall. Peter rolls his eyes. Shouldn't be hard to find. is jotting info on notepad. Did it have any distinguishing marks? Ray! It's six feet tall! Peter grabs Ray's arm, starts ushering him to front door. (over shoulder as he goes) Thank you, Sir. We'll put out a missing chicken report right away. As the three Ghostbusters and Slimer cross toward Ecto-1 parked in front. (as they go) This one's easy, guys. Old Zeke's been watchin' too many horror movies and eating too much greasy popcorn. No, Peter, I think we're dealing with a bonafide werechicken here. Peter and Winston stop, look at Ray in disbelief. A werechicken? Get serious, Ray. Then explain those! Ray points at ground. Peter, Winston and Slimer look down. Peter is standing with both feet in two enormous chicken footprints. The three Ghostbusters follow Maude's "chicken" tracks with powerful flashlights across a field spotted with haystacks. Slimer moves ahead, nose to ground like a bloodhound. (SNIFFS as he goes) He floats along above the flashlight-illuminated tracks which lead him right into the haystack. We hear a BONK from within, then: Ow! Slimer backs OUT INTO SHOT rubbing his head. He looks up and his eyes pop wide. (amazed GASP!) The Ghostbusters ENTER SHOT and play their flashlights across the huge egg sitting atop the haystack. (excited) What'd I tell you, Peter? A werechicken egg! Gimme a hand, Winston! As Ray and Winston ease the egg down off the haystack. Peter holds his PKE meter up to it. Look, if this is a werechicken egg, Nothing registers on the meter. ...how come there's no PKE reading? Ray and Winston still hold giant egg. (looking at meter in Peter's hand) I dunno... that is strange. Let's get it back to Headquarters and run some tests. Then maybe we'll have some answers. Oh no, I'm not leavin'. The werechicken that laid this has gotta be around here someplace -- and I'm gonna find it. (throws up his hands with heavy SIGH) I'll take it. C'mon, Slimer. They take egg from Ray and Winston and start back toward Ecto-l. (shaking his head; as he goes) Werechickens. Through its RED EYES we see, from a distance, Peter and Slimer carrying the egg, Ray and Winston moving off in other direction. INT. -- GHOSTBUSTERS HQ - LAB - NIGHT Egon still busy with his balloon as Peter and Slimer carry egg in through door. (through above) Yo, balloon man, we've got some real work for you: How about analyzing this? Egon looks around, reacts to egg. Interesting. That's the second biggest egg I've ever seen. Peter and Slimer set egg on Egon's desk. I don't wanna hear about it, Egon. We've had a long night in a not-too-fragrant barnyard, so I'm taking a shower and hitting the sheets. Peter EXITS as Slimer ZIPS in close beside Egon, elbows on desk, chin in hands, eyeing Egon and egg expectantly. Egon pushes glasses up off tip of nose and blinks at egg, not sure what to do with it. CAMERA MOVES IN on egg and we -- EXT. -- FULL MOON IN COUNTRY SKY -- NIGHT CAMERA PANS DOWN from full moon to reveal the tiny figures of Ray and Winston approaching an old barn. They stop, shining their flashlights on closed main door. (tired) Ray, it's gettin' pretty late. Maybe there really isn't any... (holds up one hand) Shh! Ray extends his PKE meter toward barn. It BEEPS incessantly. (low voice) It's in there. (unclipping his blaster) Then let's get it! INT. BARN -- HIGH ANGLE ON MAIN DOOR -- WERECHICKEN'S POV Through its RED EYES we see the barn door slowly CREAK open, revealing Ray and Winston peering in. CLOSER ANGLE -- RAY AND WINSTON They ENTER cautiously, Ray holding his BEEPING meter out before him. The barn is dark except for the moonlight slanting through the loft window and the beams of their flashlights. As the WIND picks up, WOOD CREAKS, HAY RUSTLES, and a piece of JUNKY machinery turns with a SQUEAL. Man, this place is creepy. It's in here -- I can feel it. Suddenly the door SLAMS shut behind them and the FLAP OF BEATING WINGS SCURRIES through the darkness. Winston JUMPS. Look out! Ray shines his flashlight toward the lofts. Its beam catches a couple of startled pigeons as they fly out the window, pinion feathers WHISTLING. REACTION SHOT -- RAY AND WINSTON (relieved SIGHS) RED-TINTED, moving slowly toward Ray and Winston from behind. They stop as PKE meter starts BEEPING. Ray checks the reading. (whisper) Something's close. Very close. Closing on Ray and Winston. The guys wheel around. We see only its face. The blood-red eyes stare menacingly, its fanged beak slightly open and drooling. It hops forward into a streak of moonlight. It's three feet tall, its wings hang out at the sides, and its evil, blood-red eyes stare at CAMERA. It is a werechicken! ANGLE ON RAY and WINSTON Backing away, blasters leveled. Man, he is ugly! It postures, rooster-like and: (ROARS angrily) ON RAY and WINSTON Still backing up. Bad choice of words, Winston. THE WERECHICKEN suddenly leaps AT CAMERA. (loud SHRIEKING SQUAWK) ZOOM-IN on Winston and Ray. They open fire. The proton streams catch the Werechicken in mid-air as it vaults toward Ray and Winston, halting its leap and suspending it in a corona of proton energy. A HIDEOUS SPIRIT rises from its writhing body -- shapeless, but with monstrous glowing eyes and fangs. The spirit lets out a ROAR more frightening than the Werechicken howl. (big ROAR) Ray, still firing his gun, snaps a trap loose from his belt, and tosses it onto the barn floor. It POPS open. Trap out! Ray and Winston, struggling with the writhing Spirit caught in the streams, guide the Spirit into the trap. Hang on! That's it! We've almost got him! The Spirit is sucked into the trap, which SLAMS shut. WIDER ANGLE -- RAY AND WINSTON A normal chicken with singed feathers stands where the Werechicken was. It CLUCKS, starts pecking at the dirt. (Normal CLUCKING) (looking at chicken) Well, that takes care of one werechicken. Ray picks up the smoking trap. Now to find the six-footer that ate Zeke's wife. They head for the door. Winston stops. Ray, I just had a thought... Ray pauses to look around at Winston. What if that six-foot werechicken is Zeke's wife? And off their looks, we -- INT. -- GHOSTBUSTERS HQ -KITCHEN -- NIGHT Egon carries the big egg into kitchen, Slimer helping. (straining) Thanks for the help, Slimer, but I don't have time to examine this egg tonight. I have to prepare for my weather balloon demonstration tomorrow morning. With his elbow, Egon opens refrigerator with and the two of them place the giant egg inside. (through above) But it'll be safe in here. Yeah. Egon closes fridge. (big YAWN) G'night, Egon. Slimer floats off. Goodnight, Slimer. Slimer is SNORING, hovering above Peter's empty bed. In a BUBBLE above him, we see Slimer's DREAM, various kinds of food dancing and SINGING the first two bars of Los Lobos' "LA BAMBA" a la the California Raisins in "I Heard It Through The Grapevine." Still asleep, Slimer licks his lips hungrily, opens his mouth incredibly wide and pounces on the entire dream balloon with a teeth-jarring CHOMP! that POPS the dream bubble so that it EXPLODES inside his mouth, waking him up. Slimer sits up with a wide-eyed, hungry look, rubbing his tummy. Fooooood. He zips o.s. Dark. Lights go on, then Slimer SKIDS to mid-air stop and whips open fridge. His eyes pop as he sees the egg. (licking his lips) Yummy! Slimer rolls egg toward edge of shelf, then the full weight of the egg drives Slimer straight to the floor. The egg bounces on his stomach twice before he gets a grip on it. Straining his little green brains out, he floats the egg up into the air and o.s. (SQUEALS, then GRUNTS) Slimer shoves egg in the open oven, closes door, turns on the heat, then moves O.S. The oven interior glows red and the egg starts to quiver. Slimer HUMS as he busily sets table for one: placemat, a plate, utensils, salt, pepper, ketchup, mustard, mayo, relish, ... a flurry of activity that all focuses on his personal eating spot. (HUMMING through above) Through window we see the egg shake and then begin to crack open. Hovering at table, still preparing for feast. He puts on a bib, unaware of oven shaking behind him. (still HUMMING) With a loud BANG, the oven practically explodes and the door flies off. Out pops a BABY WERECHICKEN, SNARLING and CACKLING. His eyes bug and his paw drops. (startled SCREAM) Slimer barrels up through sink faucet, leaving his bib stuck in the opening. Peter shampooing his hair. Slimer comes shooting out through shower nozzle, hugs Peter tightly around the neck and scaring the hell out of him. (startled YELL; then:) Slimer! How 'bout some privacy?? (pointing, eyes wide) Monster! Inna kitchen! Monster? (nods) Uh-huh! Uh-huh! (imitates werechicken) Egon works at his table. A now familiar Werechicken shadow appears over his shoulder and grows up the wall. CLOSER ANGLE - REAR VIEW ON EGON Werechicken creeps OUT OF CAMERA, bites Egon on the rear and pulls back o.s., chicken claws CLATTERING off into distance. (looking around) Ow! (CACKLING fading into distance) Dazed, he looks down at his feet. Chicken toes pop through the leather, one at a time. (dazed) What? As Egon's transformation continues: His coveralls RIP apart at the legs, then midriff, then his arms turn into wings. Finally, a beak sprouts from his face. (Weird CLUCK) INT. HALL OUTSIDE LAB -- NIGHT Peter (now dressed and wearing his backpack) runs up to lab door and flings it open, Slimer right behind him. Peter and Slimer look in, not seeing Egon, who is now a six-foot-tall werechicken, but still wearing his glasses, standing behind door. Egon? (to Slimer) Well, Slimer, I don't see anything here that looks like a monster. The Egon-Chicken jumps out right in front of Peter and Slimer. Slimer freaks and rockets right through the nearest wall. (SQUEALS as he goes) Holy cow!! Peter raises his proton gun. He flaps his wings wildly, his red eyes bulging, and GROWLS, revealing impressive fangs. ----------- ------- INT. -- GHOSTBUSTERS LAB -- NIGHT Egon the Werechicken moves toward Peter, fangs bared in attack mode. (SNARLING as he goes) He steps back into doorway, blaster leveled at Egon-Chicken, and SNAPS on the power. It HUMS to life. (horrified) What'd you do to Egon, you bird-brain! Peter! Wait! A hand grabs Peter by the arm fust as the thrower fires, sending the proton stream off at an angle into ceiling, barely missing the chicken. (surprised as he looks around) Hey! as Ray pulls Peter out into corridor, Winston kicks door shut in the Egon-Chicken's snarling face and quickly locks it. Slimer hovers nearby looking worried. The door SHAKES and SHUDDERS as the unseen Egon-Chicken tries to break through. (irritated; through above) What's wrong with you guys? That thing ate Egon! Peter, that is Egon! The egg hatched, he was bitten and now he's a werechicken! The door behind them is starting to splinter and bulge from the battering of the Egon-Chicken. (looking at door) You're kidding! (a BEAT, then) Come to think of it, there was a certain resemblance. Suddenly the battering stops. (looking toward door) What happened? He's so quiet all of a sudden. Looking toward o.s. window, he reacts. It's the moon! He hurries o.s. Ray stops at window, looks out. Beyond we see the full moon. Peter, Winston and Slimer come up behind him. Tonight's the first -- It's beginning to disappear, right to left. -- lunar eclipse in ten years! All looking out window as eclipse continues Ray, what's this have to do with Egon being a chicken? (turning to others) Werechickens only appear during a full moon, and for the next few minutes, the moon's not full. Door opens and Ray pecks in. (tentative) Egon? Seen from the waist up (he's not wearing clothes), looking around, confused. He sees Ray. Ray, what is going on? Egon is holding his tattered coveralls in front of his waist, like a skirt. And why am I naked? Suddenly Slimer flies INTO SHOT and gives Egon a big, sloppy kiss. (as he enters) Egon! Sit down, Egon, we have some good news and some bad news. (as he sits) Bad news first. You've been turned into a werechicken! His glasses slip to the end of his nose as his eyes widen. He pushes them back up. A werechicken? He hurriedly thumbs through the TOBIN SPIRIT GUIDE. (flipping through book) Were-aardvarks ... were-bears werechickens! (reads) "The werechicken appears during the full moon. Anyone it bites will turn into another werechicken." (he looks at Egon) That egg Peter brought in, it hatched and... He rubs his rear. (through above) I remember the bite clearly. How long will I stay like this? ON RAY, WINSTON and PETER Looking at the Tobin Guide. (looking in Tobin's Guide) According to this, there is an antidote. But we've gotta move fast -- the eclipse only lasts three minutes! Slimer scrambles through the cupboard, grabbing various bottles of stuff, and hands them to Winston who adds ingredients to mixing bowl and stirs while Ray reads from Tobin's Guide. (reading through above) "One tablespoon paprika, one clove of garlic, some parsley for color, cup of gelatin..." Through it we see the eclipsed moon starting to emerge from shadow. His pupils look constricted and he's perspiring. (weakly) I don't feel well. Peter steps INTO SHOT, puts arm around Egon's shoulders. (through above) Take it easy, Egon. You're gonna be fine. (SHOUTS O.S.; worried) Hurry it up, guys! INT. KITCHEN -- ON WINSTON AND RAY (reading hurriedly) "And one tablespoon of chickenbane." He rummages through shelves, then looks down at Ray. (aghast) No chickenbane! Ray and winston exchange panicky looks. Then we've gotta go with this! C'mon! They run OUT with the mixing bowl of liquid. Slimer follows. INT. LAB -- CLOSE ON EGON'S LEGS They're once again turning into chicken legs and chicken feet. Toes popping out like popcorn. Come on, Ray!! As Peter and Egon stare down at the chicken legs and chicken feet. (YELLS o.s.) He's changing again! Ray, Slimer and Winston rush INTO SHOT. (breathless) Quick, Egon, drink this! Winston hands the bowl of potion to Egon, who gulps it down. (swallowing, GULPING sounds) As Egon drinks, his arms transform into wings and he drops the bowl, breaking it. We're too late! As the transformation and feathers rise up his shoulders. Suddenly, the transformation stops at the neck. DRAMATIC MUSIC STOPS, too. ON PETER, RAY, WINSTON AND SLIMER They stare, wide-eyed. After A BEAT -- What happened? To include Egon, who is once again a six-foot-tall chicken, but with Egon's own neck and head. The potion only partly worked, because of the missing chickenbane. Well, we hafta do something! Don't get your feathers ruffled, Peter. There's a logical solution to every problem. Strands of slime stand straight up on the nape of Slimer's "neck" at the sound -- like a frightened cat -- and he dives into a test tube in a rack on Egon's workbench. (SQUEALS as he goes) looking around. What was that? The werechicken that bit Egon. It's still out there somewhere. (to others) Let's stop that thing before it makes drumsticks out of anyone else! (to Egon) Un, no offense, Egon. The three normal Ghostbusters dash toward door. EXT. -- AERIAL VIEW -- MANHATTAN -- NIGHT ECTO-2 glides over the city, running lights blinking. Peter at the controls. Slimer sits beside him, looking down at the city through binoculars. (into radio mike) All quiet on the chicken front. How about down there? Winston driving. Ray on the radio. Not a peep. (gives Ray a dirty look) No pun intended. Several people run out front door SCREAMING as ECTO-1 passes. (SCREAMING as they exit) Winston and Ray look back at exiting people. That's it! Winston cranks the wheel. As it makes a SCREECHING U-turn. Ecto-1 SKIDS up, doors open, and Ray and Winston leap out, blasters at the ready, running toward store entrance. Ray and winston run in and stop inside door beside a panicked BOX BOY who points o.s. (breathless) It's in there! A big chicken! It's gotta be ten feet tall! Ray and Winston exchange glances. Ten feet tall? (nods) Maybe fifteen, I dunno. Big! (he runs o.s.) I'm outta here! (to Winston) Let's split up. They run off in opposite directions, flanking the long aisles. PAN WITH him as he cautiously moves along, aisle by aisle. At far end of aisles, Winston can be seen doing the same. The market is thrashed, spilled groceries everywhere. As they reach the last aisle. No chicken. Ray joins Winston. How could we lose a fifteen foot-tall chicken? (frightened SCREAM) We didn't! Come on! They hurry o.s. INT. MEAT DEPT. -- ON BUTCHER He's hiding under his butcher block, trembling. Ray and Winston run INTO SHOT. The Butcher looks up, eyes wide. A giant chicken just came through here -- it was thirty feet tall! Thirty feet tall? The Butcher is pointing out open door. Beyond is a parking lot with a trail of crushed cars right down the middle. Yeah! Look what it did to those cars! Ray and Winston race out the door. EXT. INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT - WIDE ON ECTO-2 FLYING -- NIGHT The little chopper, lights blinking, skims low past three-and four-story buildings. (into radio) It's how big? Okay, Ray, I admit you were right about these Werechickens,... Peter and Slimer, as before. ...but I definitely don't buy them growing to the size of buildings. (covers mouth, LAUGHTER FIZZING through his closed, flapping lips. "How absurd.") Suddenly, the head of the Werechicken rears up INTO SHOT right in front of Ray and Slimer. (deafening HOWL) ECTO-2 is buffeted about by the howl as Peter jams the stick forward. It makes a steep, banking dive and gets the hell out of there, barely escaping the big Werechicken's beak that SNAPS shut on thin air just behind Ecto-2's retreating tail. Peter is shaken, but in control. Slimer is trembling like green Jell-O. (into mike) Ray, you were right! The chicken's here, and he's a walking high-rise! INT. -- ECTO-1 -- NIGHT -- MOVING (into radio) On our way, Peter. Winston floors it and he and Ray accelerate forward INTO CAMERA. INT. BUNKROOM -- GHOSTBUSTERS HQ - MORNING Egon is "perched" on the window sill, looking pensively out at the city, still a chicken from the neck down. A BEAT, then: (big SCREAM) (startled CLUCK) Startled, Egon flutters up off the sill, gravity takes over, and he lands on his feathered butt. Revealing Janine standing frozen in the doorway, eyes wide with disbelief, hands to her cheeks. Egon! What happened? It's a long story, Janine. Can you get my coat, please? I'm due at the weather board in forty-five... ...minutes. She stares at Egon, totally bewildered. But what ...? (thinks better of asking) Nevermind. Janine takes a long yellow raincoat off a door hook and helps him into it. He's completely covered except for his head and feet. Are you sure you wanna go to a meeting like -- this? Trust me. I'm of sound mind at least. As he struts toward the door, we see his tail protruding through a slit in the back of coat. He EXITS, CLUCKING. (CLUCKING as he goes) Staring after him in disbelief. EXT. MID-TOWN MANHATTAN -- ANGLE ON WERECHICKEN It walks along stepping on cars, kicking over telephone poles, etc., a la Godzilla. The streets SHAKE. Panicky pedestrians flee the Werechicken's giant feet. (panicky WALLA) Peter and Slimer are following giant chicken. (into radio) It's heading down 34th toward the Empire State Building. Ecto-1 SPEEDS around a corner, SIREN blaring. Check! We're almost there. EXT. EMPIRE STATE BLDG. -- DAWN Sun rises behind the werechicken as it approaches in distance. With each HOWL, the streets SHAKE. Approaching CAMERA fast, it SCREECHES to a halt. Doors fly open. Ray and Winston LEAP out, open fire, their proton streams angling upward. Moving toward them down the concrete canyon, flattening street lamps and power poles. Ecto-2 can be seen flying above and behind it. The proton streams are up toward it. Take over, Slimer! Roger! Slimer grabs the control stick in both hands as Peter leans out to one side with his blaster and fires downward. Caught in the three crossing streams. It FLAILS about, knocking over street lights and bashing in the sides of buildings, and lets out a deafening HOWL. A MONSTROUS SPIRIT emerges from its body and fills the screen like a transparent film. (enraged HOWLS) Ray tosses out the trap. Let's reel him in! As Ray, Winston and Peter's beams draw the Spirit toward the trap. (angry HOWLS) Ray's boot stomps on trigger and trap springs open. As the Spirit comes into contact with the trap a small STORM ERUPTS around it. SPARKS and LIGHTNING BOLTS fly. A HURRICANE-like WIND BLOWS. Being buffeted by wind, struggling to hang onto their throwers as they continue firing. They have to SHOUT over the NOISE. (loud) Trap's full! Somebody forgot to empty it! The wind is really bouncing it around. Slimer has his hands full, while Peter continues shooting. Whose job was it? turn to each other. Light FLASHES rapidly. Trap begins to shake and glow. It's gonna blow! (over walkie-talkie) Peter, get outa here! It banks, gets the hell away. turn off their proton guns and are KNOCKED down by the released force as the freed Monstrous Spirit whooshes skyward. The STORM abruptly disappears, as if SUCKED up. The trap stops shaking and SNAPS shut. As the Spirit POPS back into its body, JARRING it. Its chicken face contorts with new ANGER. It turns and starts up the side of the Empire State Building. EXT. EMPIRE STATE BUILDING - MORNING The werechicken is halfway to the top. PULL BACK to reveal Peter, Slimer, Winston and Ray standing in street looking up at him. Ecto-1 and 2 are behind them. So how're we gonna, put that big bird on ice, guys' (SNAPS finger) Peter, that's not a bed idea! Chicken freezes at very low temperatures! Yeah, but how do you freeze a 50-foot chicken in August? A BEAT, then the three guys look at each other. Egon's weather balloon! EXT. -- BUILDING ROOFTOP -- MORNING Not far from the Empire State Building. Egon stands before a group of seated MEN and WOMEN --THE WEATHER BOARD -- in his rain coat. To one side, the weather balloon hovers above them. Distinguished members of the Weather Board, my weather balloon has the clu-cluck-clu- capability -- The top of the Empire State Building is visible behind him as he holds the small weather device control box in one winged hand. ... of entering the upper atmosphere where clu-cluck-clu cloud formations occur. They look at each other, puzzled. (puzzled MUTTERING WALLA) There, it can electronically alter weather cut-cut-cut-con-ditions to produce sun, rain, or... ...snow. Ecto-2 ascends into view behind him and hovers, the chopper's rotors blowing Egon's raincoat up over his head, exposing the chicken body underneath. Their mouths drop open as they stare at Egon's chicken body. (excited WALLA) He pulls raincoat down off his face, holding it in place with one hand as he looks at audience with forced smile. (to Board members) I, er, can explain this, but -- Slimer flies INTO SHOT beside Egon and WHISPERS in his ear. What? He looks around to where Slimer is pointing. As the Werechicken climbs into view, scaling the upper stories of the Empire State Building. (distant SQUAWKS) The Weather Board members see the Werechicken and start to SCREAM. He JUMPS onto a rope ladder hanging from Ecto-2 and climbs inside. Slimer flies in right behind him and Ecto-2 rises up OUT OF SHOT. Egon settles into passenger seat. Slimer hovers behind them. (loud over engine) Egon, can we freeze that big chicken with your weather balloons (holds up wings) Yes, but you'll have to work the controls. (nods) Piece of cake. It banks off toward the Empire State Building as the Werechicken reaches the top of the spire. As it gets "comfortable" on the spire, fluffing its feathers. It begins to quiver (like Maude did earlier when she laid an egg). (hideous CROW) On street below, looking skyward through binoculars. What's it doing? It looks like it's about to lay an -- Winston puts a hand over Ray's mouth. (with dread) I don't want to hear it. It rises from weather bureau rooftop, then drifts along horizontally, away from the Empire State Building. It stops, then begins to rise again. The sky darkens as the balloon rises into the clouds. Peter, Egon, Slimer, as before. Peter operates the weather balloon control box while Slimer flies the chopper. Okay, Peter, the balloon's in position. Turn the lever to the extreme left. CLOSE UP ON WEATHER CONTROL BOX Peter turns a lever. The balloon and surrounding clouds start to freeze, turning white and forming ice on them. Suddenly, snow starts to fall. He sticks his tongue out and catches some snowflakes. Blizzard-like snow pelts it. The chicken begins to stiffen and turn white with frost. (angry SQUAWKS) Snow falls on Ray and Winston as they gaze skyward. They did it! All-right!! They high-five each other. A heavy snow continues to fall as CAMERA MOVES IN (calls) Anyone for dessert? Maude (back to normal) emerges from kitchen carrying a large, steaming bowl. Seated around the table are Egon (back to normal) Peter, Winston, Ray and Zeke. No Slimer. There are half-empty soup bowls in front of everyone and the diners all look full to the point of weariness -- except Slimer. (raising hand) You bet, Maude. As he looks at bowl of soup Maude sets down. Lemme guess -- more chickenbane soup! spooning soup eagerly into his bowl. I'm actually starting to like it. No more werechicken problems for us, eh, Egon? Everyone freezes and looks o.s. Uh-oh. It came from the lab! The Ghostbusters burst from their chairs and run o.s. As the Ghostbusters cautiously advance, blasters ready. It opens and the Ghostbusters peer in. Suddenly ... (another HOWL) SWISH PAN to ... A HUGE SHADOW on the lab wall, its head making a "pecking" motion like a werechicken. After a beat, PAN DOWN to reveal Slimer with a Walkman on his head, "pecking" his head to the rhythm of his music. Slimer HOWLS again ... (big SIGH) It's just Slimer groovin' to his new James Brown tape. As he continues to groove to the music. (a la James Brown) I feel good! I knew that I would So good, so good, so good! (big James Brown HOWL as we --) Peter turns to the others in disgust. (long-suffering) Tell me, how do I get out of this chicken outfit?