Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone Script at IMSDb. The Internet Movie Script Database (IMSDb) The web's largest movie script resource! Search IMSDb Alphabetical # A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Genre Action Adventure Animation Comedy Crime Drama Family Fantasy Film-Noir Horror Musical Mystery Romance Sci-Fi Short Thriller War Western TV Transcripts Futurama Seinfeld South Park Stargate SG-1 Lost The 4400 Sponsor International French scripts Latest Comments Predator 9/10 Master and Commander 2/10 White Christmas 8/10 Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald 10/10 Legend 10/10 Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone Script IMSDb opinion None available IMSDb rating Not available Average user rating (9.26 out of 10) Writers J.K. Rowling Steven Kloves Genres Adventure Family Fantasy Movie Release Date : November 2001 User Comments for Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone farah (10 out of 10 ) i just love your movie i am your biggest fan my sister and i just love harry, ron and hermionie Miss Aaron (10 out of 10 ) This movie script for Harry Potter and the Socerer's Stone is terribly incorrect. In the second scene where Harry is at the Dursley's house the script reads 'VOLDEMORT' where it should read 'UNCLE VERNON'. If you have read the books or are familiar with the story at all you will surely know that this is a MAJOR problem, as Voldemort does not have speaking lines until the very end of the movie/book and he certainly doesn't LIVE with Harry!! :0) Thank you and happy HP-ing!! ~Time stretches across two universes, the one with Sirius in it, and the one without.~ Alisa Dragoon (9 out of 10 ) The Harry Potter movies are all excellent! Albert (10 out of 10 ) Movie was good. andree-anne (10 out of 10 ) Harry Potter is excellent movies. I love you harry Potter. Heidi (10 out of 10 ) Harry Potter is of course one of de best films ever. I actually prefer the books, but I love the films too. It's quite short and there's so much missing. Anyway: TEN POINTS! =) Thomas (10 out of 10 ) Perfect movie Michelle (10 out of 10 ) Like someone else said...this script has some major mistakes. The dialogue is correct but some of the characters are not. Where it says Voldemort and Percy in the beginning it should actually be Uncle Vernon and Aunt Petunia. There are others too. Someone should go through and correct them. I still absolutely love the movie. JinKyung (10 out of 10 ) movie was excellent! I'm Korean fan. I expect to come to the Korea all players! Landon (1 out of 10 ) The special effects in the film stunk really bad! The troll looked really bad! Ahhh! either way, I hate the fact that there are even films that say that witch craft is a good thing. So, I'm going to have to say I hate Harry Potter. ashleigh (10 out of 10 ) I love the movie but the script is wrong I love you harry potter hugs and kisses I give it a 10 star rating. Milo (1 out of 10 ) Someone correct me if I'm wrong, but wasn't the title of this film changed from Philosopher's Stone to Sorceror's Stone, because the distributors felt that a US audience wouldn't know what a philosopher was. Any thoughts? Katherine (10 out of 10 ) I think it is the best show ever! Ali (10 out of 10 ) This was not my favorite out of all the HP films but it was very good. callum (10 out of 10 ) Brilliant. Omkar (6 out of 10 ) Good for a first movie Imma Liar (8 out of 10 ) Ok I guess but I thought the movie was too fake and too slow, but I loved the book! But I don't get one thing - Why didn't Dumbledore destroy the stone BEFORE Voldemort got to it? Wouldn't that have been MUCH more simple? And what was up with everyone eating Harry's candy? jamie hodgkinson (9 out of 10 ) Harry Potter is the best film ever the effects are brilliant it couldent ger any better!!!!!! ali (10 out of 10 ) I love Harry Potter I have read every book about 4 times and loved every one of them. Love the films lots! accio_firebolt (10 out of 10 ) Fab, although Goblet of Fire is my best. Getting it on monday the 20th! Squib101 (9 out of 10 ) I have noticed that a few people other then myself have noticed the typo in the first few scenes of HP1 script. (Voldemort and Uncle Vernon mix up) If you can please correct it, as it makes trying to get movies quotes for assignments( eg flim study in english) very difficult. And I'm sure it it irritating for other veiwers of the script. Ryan Anderson (10 out of 10 ) It was totally brilliant! All the movies and books. J.K. Rowling is the best and Harry Potter is the best ever. Alexis Fischer (8 out of 10 ) I like this movie, it's a brilliant work of literature; however, this script was really confusing. I had no idea that Harry lived with Voldemort, or that Seamus's name was Sharry Weasley. On a few other lines, a word or two is skipped, but it's still possible to get the point. bob (10 out of 10 ) Great. musica101 (10 out of 10 ) The script is incorrect probably because it is a first draft (there are generally several drafts of scripts and then it gets sold and made into a directors cut [cameras, lighting directions on it too]). The character name was probably wrong because the program assumed the witer was going to use that character name and didn't and it wasn't corrected because it was only a first draft. Rupert luver (10 out of 10 ) I love Harry Potter movies. I am obsessed with the movies and books. I bet I will never get bored. My favorite acting characters in the movie are either the twins or Ron, but all of them are great. jessica (10 out of 10 ) Harry Potter is wonderfull! (10 out of 10 ) Movie is the best I think, all four are 10 out of 10. Chelsea Bebbington (10 out of 10 ) I think that by far, HPSS was the ONLY of the Harry Potter movies that stayed true to the book and did not have any added shull bit (you figured out what word I'm really saying) that some poor leveled director thought up. I thought HPSS was VERY well done. And for a movie dubbed off of a book, it was still done very well! Even if there were some major characters and scenes that were left out. I think that if the other movies had included more important scenes (for example: the hospital wing scene in the 4th book), left out crap that was NEVER in the books (i.e. the bridge introduced in the 3rd movie), done a more quality job on VERY important scenes (the graveyard scene [in the 4th book & movie) and put more EFFORT into characters (i.e. Sirius Black, the NEW Albus Dumbledore, Remus Lupin (human and werewolf form), Dobby), AND had BETTER directors (3rd & 4th movie) then I MIGHT'VE liked them. But instead, I was let down. I was so surprisingly disappointed with the 3rd and 4th movie, that I was RAVING (with rage) by the end. I thought that the new director of the 4th movie would improve the movie's decline; because of the PA's director's dismal job. But no, the director of the GF did such a poor job that I literally wanted to hurt him. On a lighter note, I think that Christopher Columbus did an amazing job on the SS and would be more than elated if he came back to direct the 5th, 6th and 7th movies. But I doubt that will happen. Ashlee (10 out of 10 ) Hey, Harry Potter is my favorite movie. Hlezi (10 out of 10 ) Ok I don't want to go all freako but Harry Potter is the BEST BOOK I've ever read. It's the only book I can read because I dream about the movie and Daniel ha ha! And the movie is so good. Very good acting to Daniel, Emma, Rupert and everyone for the past 4 years. John P (9 out of 10 ) I love the book and the movie for once actually has most of a 350 pg book packed into a 2 hour movie. They might have left a few small parts out, but otherwise it was awesome. Anyone know how the heck they make those magic effects? Jacobus Myburgh (10 out of 10 ) Harry Potter is the best book I've ever read and the movies are awesome. It deserves to get a 10 out of 10. Mariel L. GRINT (10 out of 10 ) The movie was stupendous! There's no movie that can be compared with it and I think i'm falling in love with the characters, especially the guy who played RON WEASLEY! But the title's not important, of course. Sarah (7 out of 10 ) Okay the movie was good, the books were fine, but everyone goes completely insane over them. It's not the best book I've ever read, nor is it the best movie I've ever seen. It's good, yes. But there are a lot of better movies (and for that matter, books) than Harry Potter. There are a lot of flaws and a few really bad special effects. It's good for a first movie, but the others are better and none of the series can hold up to some true classics out there. Worried reader/watcher (8 out of 10 ) I want to know why all of a sudden the movie is called "Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's stone". The book is called "Harry Potter and the Philosopher's stone", the original movie was "Harry Potter and the Philosopher's stone". And although the books in the united states are different from the books in england (where Joanne Rowling wrote them), the books in canada are "... Philosophers stone." The movies are great! They all are, and the scripts are great and well written (although they leave some major details out cough Cho cough) but they should be under the proper title. annie (10 out of 10 ) Who says Harry Potter was crap? The story was brilliant, I have seen Harry Potter 1 2 3 4 all! Nothing is wrong, all are fine. Harry Potter movies just rock, I can't wait for Order of Phoenix. Bee (10 out of 10 ) I love your movie, I am one of your biggest fans. It would be so cool to be in Harry Potter 6. I love Harrry Potter! WikiRob (10 out of 10 ) I would be glad if someone chose me to write the script! Morgan (10 out of 10 ) I love Harry Potter so much! My best friends and I are the most huge fans ! I saw all the movies and read all the books and there shouldn't only be 7, I mean Harry Potters the best thing since Elvis . I would love to just visit the set and we can't wait for the next movie they're great! eman (10 out of 10 ) I love harry potter and his Intersting movies. TJ Martineau (10 out of 10 ) You know, HP is very good to the soul when you read it. My favorite characters are Voldemort and Snape. These characters I love because of the dark arts. I love the books and movies as well as anyone else. If anyone wants to know who I am, I am 16 and I go to a private school in providence RI my school is better than all the others. I started a HP club in my school because a lot of people love HP and so I decided to start one. But it doesn't mean I'm obsessed about HP. noahm888 (10 out of 10 ) There is a reason that it is called "Sorcerer's Stone" in America and it is not because Americans don't know what a philosopher is. In English alchemy history, it is called the Philosopher's Stone, but in American alchemy history, it is called the Sorcerer's Stone. It is not unusual for Americans to have a different name for something that the British. It's pretty normal actually. Greg Duncan (10 out of 10 ) I love Harry Potter and have met him a couple of times. He put a spell on me though! I also love Hermione. Omid (8 out of 10 ) You know, I've read all the Harry Potter books several times and I love them very much. But the movies are not as good as the books, though I've watched them all several times too. I think if the movies were produced by Hollywood , that'd be much better. Julie (9 out of 10 ) It's great movie, but the script is horribly wrong!! I have seen this movie almost 30 times, yet I have never heard 'Percy' say "My darling boy! How did you get in there? Who did this? How did you get in there? Is there a snake?" And since when is Voldemort living with the Dursleys? Apparently Seamus Finnegan turned into Fred Weasley! 'Sir Neville'...try Nicholas! Anyway, that's how far I've read, but I'm thinking someone who's actually SEEN the movie should go and fix all the names! Ana (9 out of 10 ) I really love all the movies the third being my favorite. I wish Alfonzo Curon would do the last two movies. I love the fact that they are making the seventh movie into two seperate movies so that they don't delete anything I just wish that they would have started that from the very beginning. But it is a wait and see thing. The script is very incorrect. I don't know who typed it up but aparently they don't really know the movie or the books. Though to comment on Chelsea Bebbington's comment of the first movie being the only one to follow the books I believe that the third was the best. The first two were really close though. I really liked Richard Harris as Dumbledore so much better that Sir Micheal Gambon. I think Micheal Gambon is too rough for the part. Shaun (10 out of 10 ) I really liked all the films but the best was Harry Potter and the Half Blooded Prince, It was sad when Dumbledore got killed by Snape but but was mint when Harry and Dumbledore was getting attacked by the Inferius in the Slytherin's Locket cave. The Fake Locket was in to bad hidding places because everyone can drink the potion, Tom Riddle should of hid the Locket a unbreakable Box hiding the box should of been a Death Potion or covered by millions of Traps, Spells and Armys of Wizard Solidors supernerdA (9 out of 10 ) Everyone that says that this movie is wrong and not a movie that kids should watch because it approves witchcraft are obviously super christians (in other terms idiots). lulu (10 out of 10 ) Harry potter is the best movie series I have ever seen. I love harry potter and Hermione and Ron and I did love Dumbledore, he's gone now but I liked the actor who played him the best in the first movie. Kitty (10 out of 10 ) I love all the Harry Potter films. I love the books as well but isn't the title meant to be 'Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone'? Lori (10 out of 10 ) I really love all the movies the third being my favorite. I wish Alfonzo Curon would do the last two movies. I love the fact that they are making the seventh movie into two seperate movies so that they don't delete anything I just wish that they would have started that from the very beginning. But it is a wait and see thing. The script is very incorrect. I don't know who typed it up but aparently they don't really know the movie or the books. Though to comment on Chelsea Bebbington's comment of the first movie being the only one to follow the books I believe that the third was the best. The first two were really close though. I really liked Richard Harris as Dumbledore so much better that Sir Micheal Gambon. I think Micheal Gambon is too rough for the part. andre (10 out of 10 ) I really love all the movies the third being my favorite. I wish Alfonzo Curon would do the last two movies. I love the fact that they are making the seventh movie into two seperate movies so that they don't delete anything I just wish that they would have started that from the very beginning. But it is a wait and see thing. The script is very incorrect. I don't know who typed it up but aparently they don't really know the movie or the books. Though to comment on Chelsea Bebbington's comment of the first movie being the only one to follow the books I believe that the third was the best. The first two were really close though. I really liked Richard Harris as Dumbledore so much better that Sir Micheal Gambon. I think Micheal Gambon is too rough for the part. Jasmeet Singh (10 out of 10 ) I love all the Harry Potter films. I love the books as well. I really liked Richard Harris as Dumbledore so much better that Sir Micheal Gambon. I think Micheal Gambon is too rough for the part. Index | Submit | Link to IMSDb | Disclaimer | Privacy policy | Contact