Lion King, The Script at IMSDb. The Internet Movie Script Database (IMSDb) The web's largest movie script resource! Search IMSDb Alphabetical # A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Genre Action Adventure Animation Comedy Crime Drama Family Fantasy Film-Noir Horror Musical Mystery Romance Sci-Fi Short Thriller War Western TV Transcripts Futurama Seinfeld South Park Stargate SG-1 Lost The 4400 Sponsor International French scripts Latest Comments Predator 9/10 Master and Commander 2/10 White Christmas 8/10 Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald 10/10 Legend 10/10 Lion King, The Script IMSDb opinion None available IMSDb rating Not available Average user rating (9.74 out of 10) Writers Irene Mecchi Jonathan Roberts Genres Adventure Animation Family Musical Script Date : August 1993 Read "Lion King, The" Script User Comments for Lion King, The Abwao Peter (8 out of 10 ) The movy was exiting, i rarely watch movies twice but this was different laura (10 out of 10 ) i loved it Mariel (10 out of 10 ) Isn't it obvious? LION KING RULES! Jessica (10 out of 10 ) Woo! I love the Lion King. Big_Al_Smartie (10 out of 10 ) I hated the movie when I was 5 but now I'm 14 and I found tons of inside jokes and I love it! daughter (10 out of 10 ) Love it. vitanni (10 out of 10 ) Love it and was in the play at my school. dani (10 out of 10 ) It was cool but I like the Lion King 2 better. Samantha (10 out of 10 ) Who loves The Lion King? You're crazy if you don't! Long live The Lion King. gianna (10 out of 10 ) This movie rocked, I watched it for years and had the lead (Nala) in a show when I was 5. Omkar (7 out of 10 ) This is a great disney film but not the best. Sarah (10 out of 10 ) The Lion King rules, but I like Lion King 2 Simba's Pride better. Jessica (9 out of 10 ) Lion King Rules. Who would not love the lion king? The perfect family film. Clara (10 out of 10 ) The lion king is one of the best movies ever! So much drama. Katherine (10 out of 10 ) Man this movie rocks. I have both of them on video. They both made me cry. When Mufasa died, that really made me cry. On the 2nd one I cried on the part when Simba told Kiara that he didn't want her to see Kovu & she ran away. Then Kovu & Kiara found each other. I liked that song that they played when they saw each other. sam (10 out of 10 ) I love the movie. Ever since it came out I was 2. When vhs came out I was 3. And ever since then I've known it quote for quote. I'm 14 now it's 2006 and I still watch it to this day! I have nieces and nephews who like it. It's almost a part of our family! Go Lion King, I'm your biggest fan! Aayushi (10 out of 10 ) Lion King is the best movie I've ever seen, nobody can deny that. abbie (10 out of 10 ) The Lion King is my favorite movie ever really. Aaron (10 out of 10 ) Lion King is the ultimate animation movie ever so why aren't there more movies like it? Simon (10 out of 10 ) Wow this movie is the best. Its sad how they don't make movies like the old disney ones anymore When I was little I would watch this movie like 3 times a day and I had it all memorized I was like 7 I seriously did this I love this movie and its my favorite they did a really good job on this. Faye (10 out of 10 ) Lion King rocks! Scared of it at 6 but love it now! Micah Cox (10 out of 10 ) The Lion King is one of the best animation films ever! The story was so dramatic, it takes you on a journey and when it's done you may have laughed, cried, and felt excited all at the same time. I ended up reading the sript a while ago, it has inspired me to write a Disney hit of my own. Anonymous (10 out of 10 ) One of the best disney movies ever made. Jordan Kelley (9 out of 10 ) It's quite good, but at the beginning it is a bit boring. Lapatra collins (10 out of 10 ) I love lion more than anyone, trust me! fisher (10 out of 10 ) I'm 17 and I love the lion king, especially 2. It's ace, it gives me goosebumps and my girlfriend who loves lion king as well, she says I'm kovu out of number 2 because I have hair like him and I have a scar down me left eye. I say my girlfriend is kiara when she was little because she's a little nonsense sometimes lol. Jack (10 out of 10 ) An awesome film. In my my opinion, this is the best film ever done by Disney. It has a thick plot, rich detail, and wonderful songs. It has stunning animation and a good character base. I wasn't even born when this film was released in June of '94. When it went on video in March of '95, I was five months old and I have loved it ever since. I was nine when the Platinum Edition was released, and I love every aspect of both of those DVD's. This is a very enjoyable film that if your expecting, your child will love every frame of this motion picture. To bad Disney can't produce quality animation anymore. I am interested in "Rapunzel," though. abby (10 out of 10 ) The Lion King is my favorite movie of all time. It was the first movie I saw in theaters when I was 3 and I still love it. I know pretty much the entire script and all the songs. No matter how many other movies I see that are amazing, The Lion King will always be my number 1! I love this movie! joseph (10 out of 10 ) Very nice movie! OK (10 out of 10 ) Disney are dodge for adding the word 'sex' to a scene. I mean, what the hell is that?! Despite that inside joke, it's an awesome film. Sad, happy and ooh-so-sweet once he gets revenge. matt (10 out of 10 ) I LOVE LION KING! I grew up with this movie and I will always love it. It's great- the music is memorable, the characters are lovable, and all in all, both the movies are amazing. kiersten (10 out of 10 ) Its the best animated movie ever! What happened to disney?!? muffasa (10 out of 10 ) I still love this movie. I always cry when the daddy dies. I sobbed and told scar that he had to leave and not simba. I was a sobbing wreck. Prabs (9 out of 10 ) The finest 2D animated movie ever. This movie is a class of its own. Right from the start till the finishing, the movie is done beautifully. Worth watching over and over again. Karen (10 out of 10 ) I have loved the Lion King since I was 10, still love it. Whenever I hear the word of Lion King, I feel like wanting to watch it again. I love both of them, but I like the second better because Simba doesn't die, and all the outsiders are back together because 'they are in one!'. Josh (10 out of 10 ) Disney really did a good job this time. This is a classic. I never saw this movie until I turned twelve, which I regret. I hope they make a fourth movie. Jessica (10 out of 10 ) I have loved this movie since it came out. I am 16 now and I am still a huge fan. I know all about it and more. I even sing the songs just to pass the time or annoy my sister. The first one is the best, but the second one is okay. I have no idea what they were thinking when they made Lion King 1 1/2. Simbake (10 out of 10 ) LK ROCKS! Can't wait 2 see it in 3D-- once Disney get off their tails, that is! Should be good, all the same. Haushinka (10 out of 10 ) I've seen this movie so many times. I remember it like it was yesterday. I can recite the whole first ten minutes of it by heart. And I can do every single word bit by bit if I'm watching the movie. XD I've loved this movie ever since it first come out. And now I'm going to show this to my children (when I have them) and I'm going to show them what a wonderful movie this is. Aaron johnson (10 out of 10 ) This movie is really brilliant. I like lion king. It is really amazing. I'd bet if they tried well enough they could bring lion king into a cgi animated era like they did with "tangled" because we need more lion king. Even a hour long tv series. Hayden (9 out of 10 ) The song be prepared is why I keep watching it! It's just so well-animated and classically evil. Guest (10 out of 10 ) The lion king 2 sucked. Long live the first lion king movie. francois (8 out of 10 ) Eversince I watched Lion king I got addicted to it. The funny thing about it is the inside jokes I never saw when I was 4 years old I thought it was just another movie, now I'm 16 years old and I'm still watching it. The sad part is that I lost my father when I was 12 almost as if he was Mufasa and I'm Simba. I also have an uncle that doesn't like me. Sometimes I wonder if my father just like in the movies are up there watching over me. I am a christian but do you guys think someone is up there? Add your own comment * Name: E-mail: * Comment: * Rating: - Choose - 10 (Excellent) 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 (Awful) "Lion King, The" Script Index | Submit | Link to IMSDb | Disclaimer | Privacy policy | Contact