Signs Script at IMSDb. The Internet Movie Script Database (IMSDb) The web's largest movie script resource! Search IMSDb Alphabetical # A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Genre Action Adventure Animation Comedy Crime Drama Family Fantasy Film-Noir Horror Musical Mystery Romance Sci-Fi Short Thriller War Western TV Transcripts Futurama Seinfeld South Park Stargate SG-1 Lost The 4400 Sponsor International French scripts Latest Comments Predator 9/10 Master and Commander 2/10 White Christmas 8/10 Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald 10/10 Legend 10/10 Signs Script IMSDb opinion None available IMSDb rating Not available Average user rating (9.06 out of 10) Writers M. Night Shyamalan Genres Drama Horror Sci-Fi Thriller Read "Signs" Script User Comments for Signs chrisz (10 out of 10 ) this movie scared me so much i coulndt sleep. but relly done well. this is a most see for diehard scary movie buffs. once agine m night shamalan has done a good job makeing a movie. HINT: is this scares you to much watch the bonus materieal on the dvd it helped me ~chris Mehran Moradi (10 out of 10 ) It's a great film. I think Signs is the best film that a man could see. Mike (10 out of 10 ) One of the best movies ever made. The thing about Night is that he's so original, his style is awesome. When you're watching one of his movies you discover quickly that it's one of his, he's got that thing. Like with Michael Jackson for instance, once you hear him sing the first word of a song you know that it's Michael. Night is underrated. Everybody misunderstand his movies. People say that "Signs" is ridiculous; "it's about a family who live in the countryside and aliens decide to come down and scare the hell of everybody. Then you find out that water is like acid for them... End" Those are among the things that annoy me the most. People are so stupid and don't see what it's really about, or all the work that was put behind it, it's philosophy, nothing. They pnly look at the surface. Let's take Night's The Village as an other example. Everybody said it was a disappointment cuz they felt as if they've been fooled throughout the whole movie to finaly find out that everything was actually in present daytime. Now that... that's just stupid. People always misunderstand Night's messages. It has been said that The Village message was that no matter what we do, violence will always occur. -_- please! What, are you 5 years old people?! "We are that village". Courtney (8 out of 10 ) M. Night Shyamalan couldn't have done better. It knocked me out of my seat when i saw the alien. Great sound effects. I give it 2 thumbs up!! stacey (10 out of 10 ) So scary but so good M Night Shyamalan has made great movies but this is the best. Katrina (10 out of 10 ) Oh, that's stunning! You know, that's one of the best movies I've ever seen. M. Night Shyamalan's movies are all great, but this... this is a really fantastic one! The music is excellent and his style is so individua. And I really love that he likes to shoot Joaquin Phoenix, I love them both! Jacobo (9 out of 10 ) Very good film. Night Shyamalan is great director and an excellent writer. Ivy (10 out of 10 ) I really enjoyed this film. It's VERY original and different. Mel Gibson and Joaquin Phoenix are wonderful actors and did great together. M Night Shyamalan did a spectacular job with this movie. It's full of action (but not so much that it annoys you) and it's also suspenseful (but not so much that you wet your pants). I LOVE THIS MOVIE! Rent it or better yet, BUY it! I also HIGHLY recomend other M Night films too, like Lady in the Water and The Village. dante (10 out of 10 ) Instant classic, by far one of the best movies ever to grace the silver screen. (1 out of 10 ) I hated this movie. The music stunk, and the suspense was non-existent. After I saw this movie I prayed for some one to punch me in the face with hopes that I might erase this horrible movie from my head. Burn any copy you have of this movie and pray to any god that you believe in that trash like this is never made again. Jacob (10 out of 10 ) I love this movie. I watch it so much and I've just recently found the soundtrack and am playing it as I type. This movie is very emotional and at the same time scares the **** out of me. x.x (10 out of 10 ) Simply amazing. The logic of it makes you think it could actually happen, and it has its comic reliefs too. I loved it. Stephen Michael Ballif (10 out of 10 ) Signs, by M. Night Shyamalan, is a very well written script with a very strong and clear theme. The visual and creative style of this script makes for a very powerful story. One of the most powerful parts of the screenplay is the strong theme. The theme is very well organized, the result of careful outlining of thematic points. What the film is really about is clear through the visual details and actions of the characters. Another powerful element of this screenplay is the use of specific details. Although many scripts do not require such detail, the incredible phenomena is visually real due to Shyamalan's writing. He describes the size of the "signs" which visually informs the reader of the large and amazing situation at hand. M. Night also does a great job of drawing attention to important sounds, props, and actions. He uses caps and bold to highlight key sentences in his action lines. This may stray a little from traditional screenwriting, but does not distract or over-emphasize. Instead it is a creative way to share his story. This draft has some differences from the finished film. It contains some scenes left out of the film, and also lacks some that were included in the finished movie. The final scene of the finished movie was not included and weakened this draft I think. The theme remains clear, but lacks the powerful ending scene. Other scenes in this draft that were not included in the movie seemed excessive and unnessary. Each character of the script is well developed and unique. Although the story follows M. Night's trend of a shaky family relationship with a leading male character, it fits perfectly with the story and genre. The characters all have strengths and weaknesses which play into the story and theme. Overall this is a great script. The final draft must've been even better, with the changes noticable in the final film, but the script as a read by itself is amazing. M. Night Shyamalan has the unique ability to tell such a complete and enjoyable story so cinematically. Beverly (10 out of 10 ) Boy would I love to have 5min With Mr. Shyamalan, or his agent, I would blow them away with a script inside a script. I have watched this movie at least 40 times, I know the script well from the movie produced, not what was written above. And believe me he has a winner inside this movie that's just waiting to be written, I don't understand why he has not seen it. All the parts are there, formated and ready for production within 6mos. Look at the tree My Shyamalan, not at the forest. I loved it. Chris (10 out of 10 ) M. Night's last good movie. After watching reviews of the movie and having a couple things explained and brought to light I love it even more. M. Night wrote this movie incredibly well. Hopefully he makes something on parr with this soon. Moot (7 out of 10 ) Why didn't they call the cops once they knew they were in danger??? They called them twice before, and there was no scene to indicate the phones were knocked out. Add your own comment * Name: E-mail: * Comment: * Rating: - Choose - 10 (Excellent) 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 (Awful) "Signs" Script Index | Submit | Link to IMSDb | Disclaimer | Privacy policy | Contact