Spider-Man Script at IMSDb. The Internet Movie Script Database (IMSDb) The web's largest movie script resource! Search IMSDb Alphabetical # A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z Genre Action Adventure Animation Comedy Crime Drama Family Fantasy Film-Noir Horror Musical Mystery Romance Sci-Fi Short Thriller War Western TV Transcripts Futurama Seinfeld South Park Stargate SG-1 Lost The 4400 Sponsor International French scripts Latest Comments Predator 9/10 Master and Commander 2/10 White Christmas 8/10 Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald 10/10 Legend 10/10 Spider-Man Script IMSDb opinion None available IMSDb rating Not available Average user rating (7.53 out of 10) Writers David Koepp Genres Action Adventure Sci-Fi Script Date : April 2000 Read "Spider-Man" Script User Comments for Spider-Man Kevin (5 out of 10 ) I knew the film by heart before it came out in theatres Akhmed (10 out of 10 ) All Spider-man films are the best.The first is excellent,the second one was better than the first and the third one will be better than the second and so on.Spider-man is the best movie this year and the best movie i have ever seen.I expect the best from the director Sam Raimi and i know that he is the professional and i know that he knows what he is doing.I myself trust him and i know he wont dissapoint me and everybody else.Good luck Sam!!! Jerome (10 out of 10 ) It has good flow and provides good character background in the script. Considering the production and writing problems, it is excellent. Ash (10 out of 10 ) A really good movie! The magic is in the work of the Camera-man. Kevin (6 out of 10 ) This is the spider-man that never was! It's interesting to read the original script from which the movie was based. But it's a little too comic-style for my taste. Tony (10 out of 10 ) This was an amazing piece of work. I was blown away by this script. I think this would have been a better way to start the franchise out. But that is just my opinion about the film, but still a great screenplay. Lox Nox (1 out of 10 ) Only one word to describe this film: AWFUL. kiernan (2 out of 10 ) You know, I loved the real movie but this early script sucks! I'm with lox nox on this one. This script was weird and out of character. 1: No MJ. 2: Norman Osbourne is the nerd and Peter is like a stud. 3: Instead of Dok Ock being a good man turned bad, he was a bad man even before he got tentacles. Jareth Butler (10 out of 10 ) When I saw the first ''Spider-Man'' I thought it was brilliant. When ''SONYPICTURES IMAGEWORKS INC" did the special effects I thought it was outstanding. The second one is about the same. The graphics are the a bit better, especially at the train part when Spider-Man saves the pedestrians. Well hopefully the 3rd will be better. Tobey Maguire (1 out of 10 ) I think Jet Li could have done a better job than me with his eyes closed. i'm okay (10 out of 10 ) Spiderman was the greatest movie of 2002! Yo this movie rocks, leaves, soil etc, etc! The Rock (10 out of 10 ) This was one of the most enjoyable movies I've ever watched. Tobey Maguire portrayed the kind-hearted and wonderful spirited Peter Parker beyond my expectations. The movie balanced a sequence of great action scenes along with exploring the emotions of each character and really bringing them to life. Great Movie! dark-angel (6 out of 10 ) Just normal. Not fantastic, but not horrible. Just ok. sudhir (4 out of 10 ) Not good. (9 out of 10 ) Fantastic movie, I like this a lot. (10 out of 10 ) Heck yeah! Spidey movies rock! *Anonymous (9 out of 10 ) Pretty good movie. The one part that I will always remember is the scene following the doctors death and Norman is on the floor in his house and Harry finds him then there is a brief shot of Norman remember himself during the test and the Green Goblin screaming. That always scared me. Probably still does. emmerliss (10 out of 10 ) This movie rocks! Kirsten Dunst is so pretty. suraj sharma (10 out of 10 ) Amazing movie, except for some people who only want to criticize, great entertaining movie, well made. I guess no one could have made spider-man movie better than it is now. I believe basically movie should be judged according to its zenre, like in an hardcore action movie you can expect any kind of action, on that context it should not be judged rubbish. Like wise with the love stories, comedy and art cinema. Great movie specially part 2. Add your own comment * Name: E-mail: * Comment: * Rating: - Choose - 10 (Excellent) 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 (Awful) "Spider-Man" Script Index | Submit | Link to IMSDb | Disclaimer | Privacy policy | Contact